---
title: "OneDrive on Linux"
date: 2021-02-11T19:37:53+02:00
draft: false
---

## OneDrive sync on Linux

There is no official client for OneDrive for Linux, but there are some open
source alternatives, e.g.:

- [OneDrive Client for Linux](https://github.com/abraunegg/onedrive)
- [Rclone](https://rclone.org/)

### OneDrive Client for Linux

TL;DR does what you expect, available only for OneDrive.

Syncs a local folder with remote OneDrive: monitors changes both locally and
remotely and synchronizes them. 

In short, does pretty much what you expect from a file hosting and syncing
service, similar to native clients.

Seems to be a fork of the
[client by skilion](https://github.com/skilion/onedrive), but fixes some
drawbacks:

> The 'skilion' version contains a significant number of defects in how the
> local sync state is managed.

Also seems to be better maintained.

#### Useful notes

- Running `--synchronize` will download from remote and overwrite local changes.
  So this should not be invoked normally (and especially not after working on
  files offline), except for the first call.

### Rclone

TL;DR does less (or differently) than what you expect, but available for almost
any cloud drive provider.

Supports many providers (42 as of writing this), but cannot do bi-directional
sync[^1]. The closest you can get to this is the `mount` command, but does it not
work offline[^2].

In short, does **not** do what you expect from a cloud drive client, but can
shine in other workflows. Example, explore remote OneDrive (or almost any file
hosting, such as Google Drive, Dropbox, etc. for that matter) and only download
files that you need.

#### Useful notes 

- Sometimes mount breaks and the mount point cannot be edited or deleted in any
  way. It should be unmounted first:

  ```bash
  fusermount -u ./the-problematic-directory
  ```

### References

[^1]: [Rclone FAQ](https://rclone.org/faq/#can-rclone-do-bi-directional-sync).
[^2]: [Rclone forum](https://forum.rclone.org/t/rclone-mount-save-files-for-offline-use-sync-in-background/10397/4).
